>> And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically...
need to keep
on... help uncover
what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the entire
story.
>>George Noory: And
welcome to  Beyond Belief .
I'm George Noory
with another edition
of a fascinating program.
You know, ever since
I was a little boy
and my mother brought me home a
book called  We Are Not Alone
by Walter Sullivan who was
then the  New York Times
science writer,
I was hooked with the
possibility of life out there,
extraterrestrial life somewhere
on other planetary systems.
With us today, James Fox,
documentary film producer,
who has that same
obsession I had as a boy.
Don't you?
>>James Fox: Well, I'm a Taurus.
So, you know.
>>Noory: You never give up.
You're a bull.
>>Fox: That's the only --
that's the best characteristic.
There are people out there that
are so much better qualified
than me, but I will not give up.
So it's a...
>>Noory: James, in one
of our earlier editions,
when we were talking to you
about the New Mexico case
where the police officer
saw this egg shaped object
and two little occupants
outside and then it took off,
there was some hard
evidence there, right?
>>Fox: Incredibly hard evidence
and I wanted to tell you
on the last show that the first
military officer on the scene,
Richard T. Holder -- there
were other police officers
on the scene, but
Richard T. Holder,
and he was with an FBI guy --
Burns, I think his name was.
But any case, he
gets on the scene,
within about an hour
and a half, okay?
There are burnt bush,
there's vitrified soil,
there are four imprints
in the ground --
they determined it
was an object...
>>Noory: Dramatic.
>>Fox: ...incredibly
heavy, you'd have to --
no footprints around to indicate
a truck or a boom hoist.
Something made these imprints
in the sand that was very heavy
and they determined
now how heavy it was,
it was thousands of pounds.
So, Richard T. Holder comes
on board and not only this,
but they find footprints
of the alleged creatures...
>>Noory: Whoa!
>>Fox: ...exactly where
Lonnie said they were.
And Lonnie could
determine their height
because he saw these bushes
that they were standing
right in front of.
So Lonnie said they
were over by the bush,
and they found corresponding
footprints.
They called them like,
little pad marks,
almost like someone small,
they were very lightweight...
>>Noory: Were they
wearing shoes?
>>Fox: ...where they were
wearing moccasin type shoes
that made this little
imprint the sand.
They weren't that big.
So, he takes -- Richard
Holder takes plaster casts
of not only the landing
site imprints,
but the alien footprints.
Okay?
>>Noory: So we have casts
of what could be
extraterrestrials
on this planet?
>>Fox: Yes.
So now...
>>Noory: Somewhere.
>>Fox: ...so now, the air
force -- now we know --
everything I'm telling you we
know for a fact because I'm
in touch with his kids --
Richard Holder Jr.
and Richard's brother.
>>Noory: Is he no
longer with us?
>>Fox: Richard unfortunately
died.
Richard T. Holder
died, but we went --
we have a little on-camera
interview that he did back
in 1994, which I could talk
a little bit about that,
but anyway, Richard
was contacted
because of Tracy Torme --
he was one of my partners
in this project...
>>Noory: Son of the
later singer, right...
>>Fox: ...Mel Torme, yes.
>>Noory: That's right.
>>Fox: And he was responsible
for finding this guy. We
worked on contact...
>>Noory: Okay.
>>Fox: ...yeah, I am -- he's
on a whole slew of...
>>Noory: He's in the loop.
>>Fox: ...yeah, he's everywhere.
So, Richard T. Holder was
about to spill the beans
on a show called
Unsolved Mysteries .
And it was 1994 and according to
his two sons, who I'm in touch
with now, were going
to go on the record
for the first time ever --
Richard Holder was going
to really spill the
beans about this case...
>>Noory: Wow!
>>Fox: ...in 1994.
And he got a phone call from
somebody in the military
that scared the bejesus
out of him.
>>Noory: Threatened him?
>>Fox: Scared the
bejesus out of him --
that's what the kid's said, and
I wasn't on the phone with him,
but he said he received a
phone call and that was it.
He sanitized the story
for  Unsolved Mysteries
and he got rid of all the
evidence -- the plaster cast,
all the documents,
the photographic evidence
because he...
>>Noory: But somebody has them?
>>Fox: ...because he
said he didn't want
to burden his kids with it.
So his kids brought up -- now
this is really interesting
because I -- we are also
covering a very well known case
that has been covered
to death, I know,
but the Kenneth Arnold
sighting in 1947 in June...
>>Noory: Which was
one of the first...
>>Fox: ...one of the first.
>>Noory: ...in modern
day sightings.
>>Fox: And it's one
of the sightings
that coined the phrase
"Flying Saucer."
>>Noory: That's right.
>>Fox: So, we contact
Kim Arnold --
Kim's so funny, she was not
an easy person to deal with.
I like her, but whoo!
Wow! She said, "James, Paul
Harris took two years to get me
to go on a radio thing
and I didn't want
to do it, you know, two years.
You got me to go on
camera within two weeks."
I said, "Yeah, and
it almost killed me."
>>Noory: I love that.
She's that tough, huh?
>>Fox: [Laughing]
You have no idea.
Oh my gosh!
Kim Arnold, I love you, if
you're listening to this.
She basically kept all of
her father's memorabilia
from the incident
in 1947 in June.
>>Noory: He was a pilot, right?
Private plane.
>>Fox: Private pilot.
He ran for lieutenant
governor of Idaho.
He had an ongoing
relationship after his sighting
with the United States Air
Force, which I didn't know about
and I don't think very many
people did know about it.
And which all this stuff,
there's photographic evidence,
there's written evidence,
there's the --
there's the very
famous airbrush painting
that he had commissioned...
>>Noory: I've seen that.
>>Fox: ...right after
the sighting happened.
There's a radio interview right
after he had the sighting.
There's correspondence from
the Air Force with him.
There's invitations to
military installations
and then, here's the kicker.
So he was going to go on tour.
So Kenneth Arnold puts
together a whole --
Kenneth Arnold got
more publicity
than the end of World War II.
I mean, it was unbelievable.
>>Noory: It was huge.
>>Fox: Huge story...
>>Noory: Yeah.
>>Fox: ...back in 1947.
>>Noory: And this was
before Roswell, right?
>>Fox: This is before
Roswell, yes it is.
And like I said to your audience
already, he said, "Well, it flew
they flew like a saucer being
skipped across the water,"
hence the term flying
saucer was coined.
>>Noory: Somebody
picked that up.
>>Fox: So Kenneth Arnold got all
this attention from the media.
I mean, colossal, he thought,
you know, people need to know
about this and he put
together this whole book
and presentation.
He was going to go on tour.
Well, he got a little
visit by the Air Force.
Basically, and his daughter
Kim Arnold revealed to us
for the first time,
that basically his life was
threatened in so many words
they can say things to you.
>>Noory: I believe
they did that.
>>Fox: That's what she said.
>>Noory: They could get away
with anything in those days.
>>Fox: Very, very credible
-- very, very credible,
but it's interesting that
the Air Force actually had
photographic evidence of
something very similar
to what he saw and they said,
"We believe these
photographs to be authentic."
They gave him copies
-- 10 by 11's.
It's very big black and white,
really nice photographs.
>>Noory: Same thing.
>>Fox: Yeah, and
Kenneth Arnold wrote
on the back all the
descriptions,
who it was at the
military installation,
where the military
installation was,
where they invited him in 1949.
In writing said this what you
saw. We believe these to be
real. Yes, this is very
similar to what I saw.
And we're going to be
revealing all that stuff...
>>Noory: And then sometime
in that same year, '47,
we get the Roswell crash.
>>Fox: We do, and a month later.
>>Noory: I don't
believe in coincidences,
so what do you figure?
>>Fox: I -- well, you know,
people often ask me what I think
about Roswell and I say
that I'm going to have to go
with the military's initial
explanation of a flying saucer.
>>Noory: [Laughter] Which
is exactly what they said.
It was in the newspaper.
>>Fox: I believe their initial
-- yeah, because you know,
you got a lot of the
people that were involved
with that initial statement.
>>Noory: Was it a lieutenant
who came out with that?
The Lieutenant Walter...
>>Fox: Well there's Walter Haut
who wrote the --
who wrote the...
>>Noory: He did the --
the news release, right?
>>Fox: Exactly.
And I think, correct
me if wrong.
Was it Ramey was involved?
Or that was probably...
>>Noory: Ramey was involved...
>>Noory: Yeah that was...
>>Noory: ...and Marcel
was involved...
And, as you know,
we just
lost Jesse Marcel Junior.
>>Fox: Yeah we did.
Bless his heart.
>>Noory: Who claims that his
father showed him some pieces
of the wreckage and they
looked like little hieroglyphs
or something like that.
>>Fox: Isn't it interesting,
you know,
we just did an interview --
this is really fascinating,
I don't want to take too
much of a tangent here.
But we just did an
interview with one
of the highest-ranking military
generals ever to come forward.
We were very lucky to
get this guy on camera.
But because of his
reputation and everything else,
we talked hypotheticals.
General McPeak...
>>Noory: Retired.
>>Fox: Yes, he was head of the
entire United States Air Force.
It's really funny, actually,
because at the beginning
of each interview I
say, "Please, you know,
state your name and
spelling and your position."
He's like, "Well,
General McPeak,
I was head of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff,
United States Air Force..."
>>Noory: Can't get
much bigger than that.
>>Fox: ...I said, "Well,
what did your job involve?"
He's like, "Well, I had a
million people working for me.
A budget of one point
two trillion to get a..."
>>Noory: Yeah, that's true.
>>Fox: I thought, "Wow!"
>>Noory: Now, is he a believer?
What did he say?
>>Fox: Well, here's -- I said...
>>Noory: And this is in
the documentary 701, right?
>>Fox: ...yes, this is going to
be in the documentary 701.
Now I said -- before the
interview I said, "General,
I'm just going to talk
hypotheticals with you.
I know it's sensitive and what
his official position is --
some people, their
opinion may differ.
But I said, we're going
to talk hypotheticals.
If the accounts were to be
believed over the last 65,
70 years of these
sightings, you know,
objects with no airplane
-- with sorry, no wings,
no visible means of propulsion,
no sound, no exhaust vents,
able to go from a standstill
to out of sight in a blink
of an eye, 90 degree
angle turns at high speed.
Are -- is there anything in the
United States Air Force arsenal
that could be responsible
for these reports?
"No."
>>Noory: No, of course not.
>>Fox: That was the first
thing I got him to say,
which believe it or not,
think about it for a minute...
>>Noory: You needed
him to go on record.
>>Fox: ...really need
people to go on record
because I can't tell you the
amount of skeptics that'd say,
>>Noory: I agree.
>>Fox: "Do you have
any idea how many..."
>>Noory: What we have!
>>Fox: ...yeah, how many secret
-- most sightings are secret.
We don't even know about
it until 25 years later.
Well, you have it from
the guy at the top.
Absolutely not, okay.
So that was one thing we got.
The second thing we got, which I
think is really cool is I said,
"Well, is it safe to say
that the Air Force is
responsible for," and I thought
about these questions
for a month, believe me.
And I wanted him
to say to the --
"Is it safe to say that the
Air Force is responsible for,
you know, our air
space and the safety
and security of our air space?"
"Absolutely, that's our job."
"So if there's something
in the air space,
perhaps it's not
identifying itself.
Is there a certain protocol
or something that we do?"
"Oh, absolutely yeah, we
scramble jets to intercept."
"Okay, so if you're unable
to identify this
so-called aircraft,
you know, what happens then?"
He's like, "Well, that would
be a National Security issue."
Okay. "Well, then what?"
"Well, that would
be classified."
>>Noory: I loe that. You got
answers without the answers.
>>Fox: Yes, that's all I wanted.
I said, "You know what,"
I remember in the middle
of the interview I was like,
"I'm done here, this is good."
>>Noory: Well, the Arnold
case was always fascinating
and the fact that the media at
that time picked up on this...
>>Fox: Yes.
>>Noory: ...and then we had
so many offshoots,
James, from that.
I used to remember my father
watching  Science Fiction
Theater  and they would
do stories of UFOs
on radar and things like that.
We really -- we really were
into that at that time.
And then we kind of drifted
away and now we're coming back
to that again as a society.
Something's happening,
we -- this --
I can't tell you how excited
I am about the 701 project.
I mean, things are really
-- you know when there's...
>>Fox: And how do people
see that, by the way?
Where are they going to get
a chance to look at that?
Is it on DVD or are they
going to go to the movies?
>>Noory: You guys got
to give us the time.
Our intention has never
changed from day one.
I got approached from Tracy
Torme about a year ago.
He said, "I'm not interested in
doing any more television stuff.
I've seen your film,
I know what I saw
on the History Channel,
I loved it."
He goes, "How would you
like to team up with me
and do the definitive seminal
UFO documentary feature film?"
And I said, "Tracy,
it's been my dream..."
>>Fox: Is this for cinema?
>>Noory: ...oh, absolutely.
>>Fox: Okay.
Big theaters then?
>>Noory: Oh, yeah.
>>Fox: In fact, this
is different.
>>Noory: Way different.
So you know, the production
qualities, I mean it's --
it couldn't be -- we
have a great budget,
we have a great team.
>>Fox: Fantastic.
>>Noory: You can check it
out at 701themovie.com, and
we're going
to upgrade our...
>>Fox: 701themovie.com?
>>Noory: ...yeah, we're
going to update our website.
But also extracting new
information on old cases
and really, really
credible information.
You know, and close encounter --
we're pushing the envelope
a little bit --
we're going with close
encounters of the third kind.
Very credible close
>>Fox: Have you investigated
cases where people have pilots?
Say I see an object coming my
way and then the pilots gone,
the planes gone,
they've disappeared.
>>Noory: You know, that's
interesting you brought that up
because there was
something that happened
and I wish I knew exact date,
but it was in Australia.
And, where this young
pilot had...
>>Fox: It was in a Cessna,
or something like that.
>>Noory: ...okay, yeah a young
pilot reported something.
And we have talked
about possibly featuring
that case, but is there malice?
I mean, was it a malicious act?
Was it the fact that maybe he...
>>Fox: Or they took him.
>>Noory: ...yeah, or
maybe he crashed the plane
in the water -- I don't know,
I'd hate to think that the...
>>Fox: Maybe.
>>Noory: ...guy was just
completely abducted.
Maybe he was.
>>Fox: I don't know, but...
>>Noory: Well, you know,
he was --
the last I had heard was that
he had a radio transmission
and he was describing this
massive size object...
>>Fox: True.
>>Noory: ...which
was coming his way...
>>Fox: Yes.
>>Noory: ...and then
he was gone.
>>Fox: Yes, I know, it does...
>>Noory: I mean, did
they vaporize him?
>>Fox: ...it's a little scary.
>>Noory: Who knows?
>>Fox: It's a little scary.
>>Noory: Unbelievable.
>>Fox: Maybe they took --
maybe they took one of us home
with them or something.
No, but we're not --
there's a couple things
that we're trying not to
do in this production.
One of which is to portray
these people, these beings,
these entities in a bad way.
>>Noory: As evil, as
David Jacobs would say.
>>Fox: We're not trying --
we're not trying to do that
and we're not trying --
not to say that all of them have
the same agenda, I don't know.
Okay? I'm trying to maintain a
fairly neutral position on this
and only go with what
we can back up with
as much hard evidence
as possible.
But to -- and also, and
people are going to hate me
for saying this, I know
there's a lot of UFO researchers
out there that are going to,
but not to put the
government necessarily --
point too many fingers
in a really bad light.
>>Noory: Oh, they're jumping on
you right now for saying that.
>>Fox: Because I know
there's a cover up,
believe me I know
but because we want
their cooperation.
We want them to say...
>>Noory: Do you actually
think you're going to get it?
We haven't gotten
it for 60 years.
>>Fox: Well, I -- you
know, I really think
that if it's ever going to
happen, now is the time.
And I think that it -- the
best possibilities for us
to take this position
to say, "You know what,
secrecy perhaps was
justified back then,
but it's not justified now.
It's time to come
out with the truth.
We're going to provide you
with a platform to do that.
Come participate with us,
come cooperate with us
and let's tell the world
what's really going on."
>>Noory: Aren't they
still living
on the Brooking's Institute's
Research Project from the '60's
that basically said,
"Don't tell people anything.
They can't handle it."
>>Fox: Well, you know, I take
it even earlier than that.
You remember in 1953 there
was the Robertson panel?
>>Noory: Uh huh.
>>Fox: And the Air
Force apparently
at that time, was divided.
Some of them wanted to
disclose the information
of what was going on,
they had just had the
estimate of the situation.
Remember that?
>>Noory: Right.
>>Fox: Project Sign and then
it went to Project Grudge.
And I remember listening
to interviews
with Dr. J. Allen Hynik who
was there at the time in 1953
and it was right after...
>>Noory: Who was
not a believer then.
>>Fox: ...not a believer then.
More inclined than
the other people,
but the Robertson
Panel basically said --
I mean, remember this is
right after the 1952 sightings
over the capital building.
Two consecutive weekends...
>>Noory: Which were
in the newspaper.
>>Fox: Jets...
>>Noory: ...pictures, yeah.
>>Fox: ...scrambled.
One of the -- one of the pilots
was surrounded by these things.
They picked them up on radar,
they had visual confirmation,
radar confirmation, you know.
God knows if they took
photographs or not.
I'm not sure.
>>Noory: And there was nothing
we could of done about it.
>>Fox: Nothing we
could've done about it,
so in 1953 they put
this panel together.
You know, I -- I talked
to people that were there
and they said, "Look, the
Air Force was divided.
Some of them wanted to release
it, some of them said we can't.
We should find out
what's going on."
>>Noory: Right.
>>Fox: So the Robertson Panel
basically said, "You know,
we're not going to
deny these things --
they exist, we'll
just ridicule those
who claim to have seen them.
And that's when that
policy shift happened.
>>Noory: And visit them and
scare the heck out of them.
>>Fox: Well, they're
just like, "You know,
let's just like,
think about it."
Where do -- what's funny about
a pilot saying he saw something
or a pilots saying
they saw something
or radar operator
saying they saw something
that defies physics
as we know it or...
>>Noory: Exactly.
>>Fox: ...defies...
>>Noory: Or people see
it outside of the plane.
Right? Alongside the plane,
looking out the window.
>>Fox: Yeah, what's
funny about it?
>>Noory: And they see
this large object.
>>Fox: What's funny about that?
Seriously.
>>Noory: Nothing, nothing.
>>Fox: Right, yeah.
So you're wondering where
this whole knee jerk ridicule
response came from and I'm
you know, it came from 1953.
So that was -- that
was a policy that stuck
and it stuck beautifully.
It was very effective.
And you know, I really
believe this with all my heart
that 701 is going to really --
is really going to
let the audience know
on a very wide scale, it's
going to be entertaining.
It's going to be informative,
it's going to be 110% accurate.
Every detail and I'm making
sure that I'm involved
with the process from start
to completion to ensure
that it's 110% accurate
when told.
>>Noory: Good for you.
Well, that's the way you are.
>>Fox: Oh, yeah.
>>Noory: Do you think
disclosure could come
after this has been shown?
>>Fox: See, I -- I'm one
of these people that's always
been somewhat skeptical
from disclosure because I don't
think the president knows much
more than Joe...
>>Noory: I agree.
Yeah I agree.
He's left in the dark.
>>Fox: So disclosure is
going to have to come
from the people letting --
getting the information
out to the people.
Once the people know
what's going on and a film
like this could really
tip that scale, I think.
Then we can push for
congressional hearings.
Then we can push our
representatives for answers
because until then -- and
I've been on the hill --
I've handed out copies of
Out of the Blue  to each
and every member of the
house, 435 with a private --
with a letter to
the Chief of Staff.
And I talked to a lot
of these congressman,
some of them knew a
little bit about it.
Some of them knew
nothing about it.
Some of them knew more about it.
And he said, "There's no way
in hell there's ever going
to be disclosure or
congressional hearings
without our constituents
rattling our cages. Period."
>>Noory: I agree.
We had one great
congressman, who's dead now.
>>Fox: Stephen Schiff.
>>Noory: Stephen Schiff,
who would've been a
champion for you right now.
>>Fox: I know.
>>Noory: Had he been alive.
>>Noory: Tell me about the
Brazilian case you're work --
you're looking at.
>>Fox: Okay, so I've had to
kind of convince my co-producers
with each -- with each
and every case, you know.
And I've been kind of going
for the close encounters
of the third kind, so I'm
pushing the envelope for me...
>>Noory: Yeah.
>>Fox: ...with this
film, you know,
because we've got
this Socorro case,
we've got the Rua
case -- unbelievable case.
And then we've got
the Virginia case.
And I remember a couple
of years ago I was invited
by a guy named A. J. Javard
-- J. Avard, no A. J. --
he invites me to do a speaking
engagement in South America
in a place called
-- I'll think of it
in a second, but it's really...
>>Noory: And they're fascinated
with UFO cases down there.
>>Fox: ...yes, absolutely.
We flew into -- we flew into Sap
Paulo and then I took a drive --
there was like a three
hour drive south --
and the name will come to
me and I'll tell you what.
But any case, so I'm about
to go on this trip and I talk
to a friend of mine, Jeff
Sigansky,
he was former head
of Tri-Star Pictures.
And he's always been a really...
>>Noory: He's into this?
>>Fox: ...he's totally into it
and he's helped me
distribute my films.
People have often asked,
"How have you done it,
independent productions and
not had one frame change
for History channel,
for the Sci-fi channel,
for Discovery channel?"
And I said, "Well,
I've been really lucky,
but I've also had this guy Jeff
Sigansky, he was really high
up on the food chain in
the entertainment industry
and he's been a real
big fan of mine
and he's been very influential
in getting these execs
to put my stuff on
television untouched.
So I've been very fortunate."
Thank you Jeff, if
you're listening.
But Jeff said, "You know,
you really need to look
into this Virginia UFO incident.
>>Noory: He brought that up?
>>Fox: He did.
And I said, "You know, I
heard a little bit about that.
Tell me some more
about that case, Jeff."
Jeff's a very level headed,
very bright man, Harvard grad,
business school,
very successful,
former head of Tri-Star
Pictures.
>>Noory: But you
wouldn't think...
>>Fox: You wouldn't
he'd be into this.
And he said, "Well, what's
that case where you had the --
you had a crash of a UFO
and then you had the
occupants wandering
around town in broad daylight?"
And I said, "Come on.
Jeff, this is really
farfetched."
>>Noory: That's right.
>>Fox: He goes, "No,
I'm telling you.
I really think there's
something to this case."
I said, "Jeff, really,
don't waste my time."
And he said, "Please,
just please look
into it while you're there.
I just really want to know."
So I said, "All right..."
>>Noory: Favor to him, right.
>>Fox: ...I said, "As a favor
to you, I'll look into it,
but Jesus this is going to
be an utter waste of time.
Clearly there wasn't a UFO
crash and live aliens wandering
through this town in Virginia."
>>Noory: Looking
for the local bar.
>>Fox:. I was convinced,
I just thought the whole thing
was just way out -- no way.
Well, I went to South
America and I met with some
of the witnesses and I met
with people who knew some
of the witnesses and I must say,
I came back from that
initial report going, "Hmm,
maybe this really did happen."
I was really -- and actually
my girlfriend at the time
and who's now my fiance...
>>Noory: Congratulations.
>>Fox: Thank you.
Rebecca, she's not really
into the UFO phenomena at all,
but she was very, very --
and I knew if she was very,
very interested -- she thought,
wow maybe this really
did happen.
Then I went back a second time
with  National Geographic
and we got access to some
of the primary witnesses,
the first hand witnesses that
saw the creatures and looking
into these women's eyes
and going to location
where it happened and
seeing their reaction
and seeing their reluctance to
come forward and talk about it
and hearing their mother
say that the Air Force came
to the house or the
military came to the house
and told them not
to talk about it.
And not only that, but offered
them a large sum of money
to recant their story...
>>Noory: They did.
>>Fox: Yes, they did.
And they never said E.T.
These girls thought they saw
the devil.
They didn't know.
They didn't see it...
>>Noory: They didn't
know what they were.
>>Fox: ...they didn't see a
craft crash and aliens get out.
Fine, there were other --
there was evidence surrounding
the area, surrounding the case
and if you listen to any
one particular testimony,
you might think kind of patchy,
but when you put
it all together --
a UFO crashed and there were
occupants that survived.
And those occupants walked
through the town
and got captured.
>>Noory: Where are they now?
>>Fox: Well, apparently -- I
went to one of the hospitals
where they were taken
and then --
and there was also another one,
Officer Sharizy who military --
he was a military police
officer -- Carlos --
Marcos Sharizy, I
think his name was.
And he apparently handled
one of these creatures.
Now he didn't know E.T. His
orders were something got loose
or something's out there...
>>Noory: Like an
animal, whatever.
>>Fox: ...something really
strange, if you see it,
capture it, bring it
back to -- you know.
And he did capture it
with his bare hands
and he got an infection
and died.
>>Noory: Really?
>>Fox: So, we're in touch with
his sister, we're in touch
with other family members
and friends of his family.
We're in touch with the primary
witnesses that saw the creature.
>>Noory: What did these
creatures look like?
>>Fox: Spindly arms
and legs, big head...
>>Noory: Like lizardy?
>>Fox: ...oily skin like that
of -- they said like an organ,
like a liver, or a kidney --
that kind of oily and that
kind of material...
>>Noory: So a different
kind of race?
>>Fox: ...no hair, very
large eyes, slits for mouths.
>>Noory: Well, maybe
the grays type.
>>Fox: Yeah, but oily
skin and big red eyes
and ridges on the forehead.
And I don't know why...
>>Noory: Oh, and that's why they
thought they were the devil.
>>Fox: That's why they
thought they were the devil
and then I don't
know what kind of...
>>Noory: Sounds like a
reptilian.
>>Fox: ...they were feeble,
they were non-threatening,
they were barely
keeping it together.
I mean, apparently they
were kind of slouched over
and they did get eye
contact with these girls.
>>Noory: Okay.
>>Fox: And they were -- and
when the girls were running,
they told me this, from
their mouths to my ears,
when they were running
away screaming,
there were some construction
workers on the building
and the construction
workers yelled out,
"They must of seen the same
creatures we just saw."
Yeah, so there were a
lot of people in the town
and then I went to
the town center.
You know like the town center,
the little area where
everybody goes?
>>Noory: Yeah.
>>Fox: Has coffee, hangs
out, plays cards, dominoes,
whatever they're doing.
>>Noory: People remember this?
>>Fox: It was 1996.
So I went around and I just
started asking random people
and just about everyone in that
town had a friend or a neighbor
or a cousin or somebody that
was involved with the case.
>>Noory: So, where are the
bodies to these beings?
>>Fox: Well, I understand
that one of them went --
was kept in Brazil and I --
from what I understand
and what I've been told
and I don't have complete
100% confirmation --
the Americans got one, too.
>>Noory: Wow!
>>Fox: Yeah, I know.
>>Noory: This was a
crashed craft that they saw?
>>Fox: A crashed craft, yeah.
>>Noory: So where's that?
>>Fox: We're going
to interview...
>>Noory: Somebody's got that.
>>Fox: ...well, you know, I
haven't been to the crash --
I haven't been to the exact
crash site, but I'm going
and I don't know when this
is going to be broadcast,
but I'm going in the end of
November 2013, early December
and I'm going to be
going to the town
with a very low profile
camera crew.
We're going to go meet with the
farmers who saw this thing crash
or saw it wobbly and
looking in distress.
>>Noory: Wobbly.
>>Fox: And going down.
>>Noory: And the occupants.
>>Fox: And then we're meeting
the people -- the occupants --
we're meeting with members of
the military officer who died
after handling one
of these creatures
and who knows what else we're...
>>Noory: How soon did he die?
Pretty quickly?
>>Fox: A couple weeks.
Yeah, he got some
-- he had immune...
>>Noory: Just like that.
>>Fox: ...immune
deficiency breakdown,
he had this oily stuff
all over his skin.
He kept putting rubbing
alcohol on his skin, saying...
>>Noory: Wow!
>>Fox: ...I got this stuff all
over me and -- yeah, he died.
>>Noory: And that's documented?
>>Fox: Oh, absolutely.
>>Noory: Everything?
>>Fox: Oh, we have
the death certificate.
Oh, yeah.
>>Noory: And how he
died, some kind of...
>>Fox: He died of
immune deficiency --
basically his immune
system shut down.
>>Noory: This is
a bizarre story.
>>Fox: It's a very
bizarre story and you know,
the military surrounded
the entire town
because these creatures
were on the loose.
So everyone was there, saw that.
>>Noory: What would
possess the creatures
to go wandering into the town?
>>Fox: Your guess...
>>Noory: What were
they looking for?
>>Fox: ...your guess
is as good as mine.
I mean, I don't know.
What would you do if
you crashed on a --
on a planet somewhere
far, far away.
>>Noory: I don't
know what I'd do.
>>Fox: I don't know
what I'd do either.
>>Noory: I'm not sure
I'd walk into the city.
>>Fox: Yeah, that's...
>>Noory: Hi folks.
>>Fox: Well, they were
hiding in an adjacent field.
But you know, I don't
know -- they were feeble,
they were easy to capture.
The girls said they
were non-threatening,
that one of them was
kind of slumped over
and looked them right in the
eyes and one of the women --
these women were traumatized
by this whole thing.
And like I said,
they never said E.T.,
but when you put the
pieces together --
the pieces of the
puzzle together,
you see that a crash happened
and that the bodies...
>>Noory: Well, and also
the pieces of the puzzle
as I've picked up from
you in just talking
about 701 the documentary.
Something's going on.
There's no doubt at all that
people are seeing these things,
E.T.'s, something's happening.
Steven Spielberg has done
a couple of great movies
about extraterrestrials off a
Hynix book,  Close Encounters
of The Third Kind  and then
E.T. The Extraterrestrial .
Ever have a chance to talk to
him or get his views on this?
>>Fox: Well, funny you
should say that actually,
because I've been
trying to contact --
okay, I've contacted presidents.
I've gotten Jimmy Carter
on camera briefly
at a book signing...
>>Noory: He saw something.
>>Fox: ...yeah, he did.
I managed to get a phone --
a brief phone interview
with President Ford.
I got a statement from
President Clinton's office,
actually when I --
during 1999...
>>Noory: Reagan was
interested in this?
>>Fox: ...Reagan was interested,
but I didn't have access.
I couldn't get a hold
of Steven Spielberg
if my life depended on it.
I tried for 20, nearly 20 years.
Finally, at the end of  I
Know What I Saw  production,
Larry King said, "Why don't I
take your film and hand it off
to Spielberg and see
if he responds to me?"
So I said, "Great."
You know, talk about having
friends in high places.
>>Noory: Because he knew him.
>>Fox: Yes he did.
>>Noory: He even got
a letter from him.
>>Fox: From his office.
So Larry took my film, which
wasn't totally complete
at the time,  I Know What
I Saw , he sent it off
to Steven Spielberg and
said, "Hey, check this out.
This is the real life
Close Encounters."
>>Noory: Yeah.
>>Fox: So Spielberg watched it
and I get a phone call,
it's really funny.
At about 10 o'clock in the
morning, I get a phone call
from CAA, which is their...
>>Noory: A great agency,
they represent me.
>>Fox: ...exactly.
CAA calls, they said, "Mr. Fox?"
I said, "Yeah."
"Steven Spielberg is watching
your movie right now."
I said, "Really,
how do you know?"
"Because he took it and he
went into a room by himself
and he's watching it."
>>Noory: That's impressive.
>>Fox: Yeah, I said, "Wow."
>>Noory: That doesn't happen.
>>Fox: So the next
hour and a half --
I can't tell you the
feeling I had.
I was like, "Steven Spielberg's
watching my movie right now."
So an hour now, I called
my dad, I was so excited,
everyone was so excited.
About an hour and a half later,
I get another phone call.
And same woman, CAA.
And she said, "Well, Steven
Spielberg watched your movie."
I said, "Yeah, and what?"
>>Noory: This is unprecedented
that they would call you
and even tell you that.
>>Fox: Oh yeah, yeah.
I promise you, everything
I'm telling you is exactly
as it happened.
And I said, "Okay,
well what happened?"
She said, "Well I don't
know, he went into his office
and he wrote a letter to
Larry and sent it to Larry."
I said...
>>Noory: There's the letter.
>>Fox: Yeah.
>>Noory: We got it
on the screen here.
>>Fox: So you know, I'm
champing at the bit to find
out what happened, you know.
So Larry finally gets in
touch with me and says,
"Hey I got the letter.
I'll send it to you Fed
Ex from our office."
So, you know, I live
in a small town.
The Fed Ex guy knows me and
he's kind of into UFO's.
>>Noory: Yeah.
>>Fox: And I live...
>>Noory: And they
all know what you do.
Right?
>>Fox: Yeah, they kind
of, yeah, you know.
So, the Fed Ex guy knocks on
my door and he goes, "James,
you're not going
to believe this.
You got a -- you got a Fed
Ex from Larry King, from CNN,
from Larry King Live."
I said, "Yeah, and it's a letter
from Steven Spielberg inside."
And he goes,
"Can you open it now?
Can I see it?"
>>Noory: He wanted to see it?
>>Fox: Totally.
>>Noory: I love it.
>>Fox: So we sat
there on the side
of the road ripping
this thing open.
It was really funny.
And I read it, so the first
person to of had access
to that letter outside
of, you know, Larry King
and Spielberg was myself
and the Fed Ex guy.
>>Noory: That's great.
>>Fox: And he was bubbling
over with excitement.
So anyway, so I got this letter
and this was right before
the film was to be released
and distribution companies, as
well as A&E were like, "Wow,
wouldn't it be amazing to have
an endorsement like this..."
>>Noory: Huge.
>>Fox: ...from Steven
Spielberg."
Just his name and what he
said, compelling right?
>>Noory: I love it.
I looked at it.
Whatever.
>>Fox: And you have to
read it very carefully,
read it very carefully to see
there's actually a statement
in there that's very, very
interesting, very interesting.
So anyway, so I contact his --
his office because I, you know,
I like to -- I don't want
to just release something
without -- I contact
his office in 2009
and I said, "Hey Marvin Leavy."
I said, "This is James Fox.
I've got a letter from Steven
Spielberg about my movie and I'd
like to extract a quote from it
and use it to promote my movie"
"Ooh," he goes, "Oh,
you have a letter.
He doesn't usually watch
people's... endorse,
he got kind of nervous, right.
And my father, the whole time --
bless his heart,
he died last year.
My father was going, "Well, you
got the quote, just use it."
And I said, "No, I really got
to get permission, you know."
>>Noory: You could've used it.
>>Fox: I could've, yeah.
Technically I could've, but I --
so Marvin Leavy said, "You know,
Steven Spielberg
would really prefer it
if you didn't use that quote."
>>Noory: Really?
>>Fox: Yes.
>>Noory: James, I
want to thank you
for being on  Beyond Belief .
Good luck, 701 --
what's the website again?
>>Fox: 701themovie.com.
>>Noory: You're going to have
to watch it when it comes out.
I'm George Noory, this
is  Beyond Belief .
[ Music ]